In this video, we're gonna go ahead and
download and install IntelliJ IDEA which
is the editor or the integrated
development environment IDE they were
going to be using in this course for our
programs. Now there are other IDEs
available for Python programming and if
you're happy with any IDE that perhaps
you've already downloaded and are using,
that's fine there's no need to install
another one, we get to pick one for this
course but you can take this course with
any IDE that supports Python. So this
particular video is for the Linux
platform, if you're running a Mac or
you're running on Windows there are
separate videos for both these operating
systems in this course so refer to those
videos as appropriate, if you're using
Linux though you're in the right place and
I'm using Ubuntu. Now JetBrains the
makers of IntelliJ IDEA make two IDEs
that are suitable for Python programming
IntelliJ ID and PyCharm so we're going
to go to their website at
www.jetbrains.com and I'll talk about the
differences, I'll come over here and
click on tools you can see how it's
going to click on this closes little
window down the bottom, we've got two
options here IntelliJ IDEA or pycharm
and for Python programming they look
pretty like pretty identical I'm going
to be selecting and using IntelliJ IDEA
here but if you want to use pycharm
instead, everything will look almost
exactly the same as the videos Now Pycharms
got the advantage that you don't
have to install a separate path and
plug-in and that's because it's
basically a version of IntelliJ IDEA
that only does Python, so the advantage
of IntelliJ IDEA is that you can use it
for a whole range of languages if you're
planning to program in other languages
and an example would be the Java master
class from the Learn Programming Academy
and you'll find that IntelliJ IDEA will
be more suitable, for that reason I'm
going to suggest you install IntelliJ
IDEA, so basically hover over whichever
one you want to use in download you
click on the download link. Now the IDEs
come in two flavors the ultimate
edition of IntelliJ or the professional
edition of pycharm well they're the paid
versions you can use them for 30 days
but after that you have to purchase a
license to continue using them but both
products also
community edition then the community
editions are free for personal use and
there are some features missing in the
community versions compared to the
ultimate or professional editions but
generally they're not things you need to
worry about while learning your Python
there's a feature matrix on the
JetBrains side if I come down for two
PyCharm for argument's sake and click on
that I'm just going to close that
it gives you some information element
and the bottom you can see there's the
differences they're showing from pycharm
between the professional Edition and the
Community Edition and likewise, if I go
back up to tools and do the same for
IntelliJ you get the same thing we get
that same feature matrix which we can
use to decide ultimately which version
to download, none of this makes sense at
the moment the best thing I would
suggest you do is just to download the
community edition version of IntelliJ
IDE, so click on download and/or
IntelliJ IDEA and I'm gonna come over
here and click on download for the
community edition of IntelliJ we've got
a moment and that should start
downloading automatically I'm gonna save
that and just while that's downloading
I'm going to mention again that you
don't have to install this IDE if you've
already got one that you're using and
you're happy with we had to pick one and
because I've created courses and so for
a number of languages I've picked an IDE
that supports them all in the IntelliJ
IDEA, I'm gonna be showing your way so
the IntelliJ and bugs in your code and
some other features that modern ideas
have to make programming easier,
most modern IDEs will have similar
features and once you know that
something is possible you can Google how
to do the same thing in any other ID
that you've chosen the other thing I can
do though is I can extend the trial
period for IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate
Edition if you're considering purchasing
it and would like more time to evaluate
that Edition then that's only applicable
for the Ultimate Edition so if that's
something you're interested in check
that out in a later lecture which shows
you how to get a special key that you'll
paste into the ultimate edition of
IntelliJ IDEA to get the extra 90 days
trial so you get a total of 120 days to
try it out so refer to that again if you
decide to download and use the ultimate
edition. Alright because here now that
it's downloaded so I'm going to go and
open the downloaded file so I'm going to
do is have a look at this I'm going to
just take a look at the folder and you
can see it's been put into my down it's
been downloaded into my downloads folder
so I'm going to go to my home folder and
I'm going to create a new folder I'm
going to call it dev
and they're going to get back and I'm
going to open an archive manager open
the downloaded file IntelliJ IDE
what I'm going to do I'm going to
extract that I'm going to extract it
into the dev folder like so
okay gonna close that I'm gonna close
this down now and what I can do then is
go back to that folder that's been
downloaded beat down it's been extracted
into dev we've never got an IDE folder
I'm not going to do is just make things
a bit easier going to go to the command
line for mr. this I'm gonna close down
this window they see on the browser
we're finished with that now and I'm
just gonna open in terminal I'm going to
navigate look where we are now which a
bit the reason behind folder into the
dev folder oh dear and also going to go
to the bin folder business folder is
where the executable is and there's IDE
IDE.sh and by the way if you've
downloaded PyCharm instead there'll be a
PyCharm community and the version
that's which easily
starts with the year 2018 at the moment
you can see this case of IntelliJ IDEA
we've got idea-ic-and a build
number there okay, we're now going to
start IntelliJ and we're going to do a
dot or period /id
sh and if you download pycharm it'll
be something like period / pycharm sh
I'm gonna run that in this case for
IntelliJ now usually you'll see this
option come up and it's coming up
telling us that we have got an option to
import some settings now that would be
useful if you're running IntelliJ or
you've installed a previous version and
you want to retain the settings that
you've configured but in this case I
haven't installed intelligence computer
before so I'm going to choose do not
import settings which is the default
actually otherwise there's a location
found by IntelliJ you could select that
it would normally come up here if it
found one for you automatically and then
get IntelliJ to import those settings
and use them and you've this specific
installation of IntelliJ but again I'm
going to leave the default and click on
ok, we've got a privacy policy let's up
popped up here and you need to scroll
right down to the bottom there and I
could kinda accept there and that
privacy policy was fairly new it may or
may come up slightly differently if
you're in Europe based on the new
privacy legislation in force and when I
did the new installation videos for
Windows that didn't come up at all but
it may or may not come up you can see
it's a simple case of just selecting
the option to accept is accept the
privacy policy and to stop be concerned
if you don't see the privacy policy pop
up. Alright so at this point now we've
got this configuration section we just
need to set up the settings to tell
intellij what options we want so this is
the theme we've got a choice of using
the dark theme or the white theme
there's also this gtk+ theme we can use
as well which you may be more familiar
with the select which one you prefer to
work with knowing that you can always
change it later I'm going to select the
IntelliJ one which is the white
background text on a white background
and click on next
we're going to leave the option under
credit desktop entry for integration
with this system an application menu
just so I can select it from a menu as
well as being able to start up from the
command line if I want to do if I want
to do that so if you've gone next now
for this one here it's also talking
about a launcher script creating a
script for opening files and projects
from the command line I'm not going to
create one here because I prefer to
start the IDE in crate or open projects
from there from the interface and the
node at the bottom of the dialog here
anyway in any events tells you how you
can create that later it gives you the
location in the menus to do that so I'm
going to leave that as the default so
I'm not going to create the launcher
script and click on next now there's a
series of plugins on the screen you can
see here and you can choose all sorts of
things what I suggest you do is to leave
it as it is now and come back later if
you decide you want to install plugins
there's actually a plugins option that
would be going into shortly and you can
install the plugins from there at any
point in the future one thing to note is
if you're running the ultimate edition
of IntelliJ you have more options to
install plug-ins for that as well
there's more options that will come up
on the screen then click on next here
and the same deal here if you want to
change or install these things which we
aren't going to use in this particular
course you can do that now but I'm going
to skip both of these and just click on
start using IntelliJ IDEA.
Alright, so now that would install the
community version the community edition
of IntelliJ IDEA, the next thing we need
to do is install a python plugin so
that's a plug-in that's been developed
by IntelliJ, so that it's fully supports
Python within the integrated development
environment. Now if you decided to
install PyCharm instead you can skip this step
that's because pythons already
integrated with PyCharm but do make sure
you watch the next video where we can
figure python and change some other
useful settings so the Python plugin
gives IntelliJ IDEA the same
capabilities as pycharm for python
programming, so what I'm going to do is
come down here click on configure and
I'm going to select the plugins, this is
how you install other plugins in the
future as well, so the search box at the
top I'm going to type in Python we're
going to be searching for then I'm going
to come down here and click on install JetBrains
plug-in, you can see that it's come up
with a few options there the only one
who is this Python Community Edition
languages and you can see this Python
community edition and the other thing to
note is it's the vendor is JetBrains
and they can generally see it anyways
but quite a large number of downloads in
this case our behalf a million downloads
so that's the python plugin that we
want to install I'm going to click on
install here and it's downloading the
plug-in you can see at this point it's
now finished, so they can see that the
Python plugin has now downloaded and
IntelliJ IDEA wants us to restart to
finish off the installation of the
plugin so I'm gonna click on restart
intelliJ IDEA then click on ok and I
think gives us an option to restart
IntelliJ IDEA I'm going to do that here
you can see that IntelliJ as we started
I'm going to take the opportunity to
close down the terminal and the other
thing to notice now is if we have a look
here we do a search for IntelliJ we've
now got this little launcher that we can
click to start IntelliJ anytime we want.
Alright, now just a note here that
sometimes the reach that doesn't seem to
work and I do make sure you click our
case I did there to close the dialogue
down and then they usually you'll get
the option to restart but worst case is
you might have to shut down or restart
yourself manually to get it to restart
it certainly didn't seem to work on a
Ubuntu 18.04 the other thing I
noticed was that on Ubuntu 18.4, pycharm
doesn't create a desktop entry when
you first run it though if it doesn't
get created for you, you just come down
to configure and you can choose the
option to create desktop entry here and
that would be the same for pycharm and
you can create that as well
and obviously I know that this is
IntelliJ IDEA on my screen but the
option is the same in pycharm but in
this case IntelliJ IDEA was restarted so
I'm going to stop the video here in the
next one we're going to make sure that
python plugin is configured correctly
but also change some other settings to
make it a bit easier to use. Now the
steps in the next video will be the same
for both IntelliJ IDEA and pycharm so be
sure to watch it even if you installed
pycharm instead. See you in the next video.